As you start overloading constructors you often notice that the code used to initialize objects in these
constructors is very similar.
Many times only the initialization values of the data members is what changes.
One common source of program errors is duplicated code.
So we want to minimize the amount of duplicated code in our programs.
C++ allows us to use delegating constructors.
The idea is that we can call another constructor of the same class in the initialization list of constructor.
The syntax is really simple.
After the parameter list we read a colon and then we follow it with the call to the constructor we wish
to call.
Let's see an example with the player class.
Here's the declaration of the player class as we've used previously.
We've got the three overloaded constructors.
And here's the code for the overloaded constructors using initialization lists.
Notice how similar the initialization lists are in this example the only differences are the values
used for initialization rather than write these initializer lists over and over in our code.
We can simply delegate initialization to another constructor.
Let me show you how in this example the first constructor is the three argument constructor and we use
a constructor initialization list as we did previously.
But when we defined the no args constructor instead of writing another very similar initialization list
we simply called the three args constructor with the initialization data we need we call the constructor
by providing the constructor name which has the same name as the class followed by the arguments to
the constructor.
In this case the no args constructor is the delegating constructor since it delegates object initialization
to another constructor.
In the last example we do the same thing but we delegate to the 3R constructor and provide name 0 0
0 0 and 0 as arguments.
It's important to note that this only works in the initialization list.
You can't call the other constructors from the body in the delegating constructors.
Also you can't delegate to another constructor and provide initialization values to class members.
Let's update the player class in the ID to support delegating constructors.
Now OK so we're back in the ID and I'm in section 13 workspace in the delegating constructors project.
So what we've got here is the player class again and we've got our same three overloaded constructors
and what we've got down here from 9:21 all the way down the line 32 are are implemented constructors
usually using constructor initialization lists as you can see a lot of this is very duplicated.
So what we're going to do is we're going to refactor this so that instead of using constructor initialization
list we're going to use delegating constructors.
Now what we want to do is we want to delegate everything in this example to this three args constructor.
So what can we do.
Well what we can do is we can replace that initializer list with a delegation.
So we simply say player and we'll say none and zero zero.
OK.
So I need to lead the rest of this.
And that's basically it.
So what's going to happen here is then replace that parentheses with a Kerley.
So it's going to happen here is we're going to call the constructor from this constructor.
That's the whole idea with delegating constructors this no args constructor is the delegating constructor
now.
So what are going to do is we're going to call the player constructor that has those three arguments
which is this guy right here the one with the initialization list.
So this guy's really going to do all the work for all of these constructors.
We're simply just going to delegate to work to it.
We'll do the same thing here.
Well call player and we'll play that said named Val and zero zero again and I'll delete the rest of
this and I think I put a print to see again.
So I'll replace that with a curly here and there we go.
So in this case we're calling the same idea we're calling this three arg constructor from here.
Now let's put some output statements in here just to see exactly how this works in the training that
takes place.
So where I'm going to do in the body of this constructor here I'm simply going to say C out and I'm
going to say no args constructor that's this.
And we'll have an end line.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm just going to copy and paste that one line of code into each one
of these constructor bodies here.
And in this case this is the one constructor that just expects the one string and this guy here expects
all three.
So I just read through Yarg And that's one arg.
OK.
So that's it.
Now we've got our constructors implemented we're using delegation here in this context and we'll just
run our made now and the idea here is the same.
We're going to create the same objects as we did before we've got to an empty which is a player object
and that's going to use the no artist's constructor because I'm not supplying any information.
So it's going to come up here and then rather than initialize it here we're just simply going to delegate
the construction of this object to the constructor that expects three args.
This guy.
OK.
So that's what we're going to do and what we'll do is we'll put brakes on all of these constructors
so we can see when they're being called.
And we'll also put a break right there and let's step through this.
And let's see we've got an error I'm missing a terminating character.
Ok I probably have that on set now.
Let's try that again.
OK so I may put the output window over here so we can see it.
And we'll walk through this and remember when we're in the constructor's we're going to use the this
keyword which is really a pointer to the object that I'm creating.
And like I said I'll talk about that a little bit later in the course.
So we're right here.
9:38 we want to create that empty object right here.
So it's going to call this no args constructor so let's step through it.
You can see I'm right here now.
Now what we expect is we don't expect this one line of code to execute in the body.
What we expect is to be thrown down here right because that's what I'm doing.
I'm delegating.
So there we go.
Now we're at line 32 this initialiser list is going to execute and initialize my object that's done.
If I look at this you'll be able to see none 0 0 which is exactly what I expected.
Now I execute the body of this constructor.
So this is going to say three args constructor and a spell constructor but that's ok I'll fix it when
I save the files.
So three args constructor just executed.
Now I'm not done.
I need to come back to the constructor that called it and then execute this this body right here.
No args constructor so let's do that.
See we're back now to line 23 and we execute that one line so you can see here that the no args constructor
call the three args constructor which is exactly what we expected.
OK so now let's use this one right here when creating the Frank object.
I'm calling that one constructor this one right here that expects a string.
So let's step through it.
There I am a bit initialiser.
I'm delegating to the same one here the player constructor that has the three arguments it's initialized.
Now I'm going to print out three args constructor again.
Now when I come back here I still need to execute the body of this constructor which I do here.
So in this case the top case the no args constructor called the three args constructor in this case
right now the one our constructor called the three Rs constructor.
OK now we'll basically do this last one right here the villain.
And for this when we're just doing this guy directly we're just running this constructor right here.
It's going to initialises three values and simply print out three args constructor and there's the output
and we're done.
OK.
So that's an example of delegating constructors it's pretty straightforward.
Many times you'll have an example this really really simple like this and this example will simplify
even further in the next video where we'll use default parameters but you can always find a way to use
these delegating constructors and they're very very handy ideas.
The nice thing about this is whatever my initialiser is here and I've got to run some code remember
that if this guy delegates to this guy both those bodies are going to be executed.